Before we can start implementing our code
to delete items from our application, we need
to talk about something called event delegation.
Which is a very important and much used concept
in JavaScript programming when we interact with a DOM.
All right, so in order to talk about event delegation,
the first concept that we actually need to talk about
is event bubbling.
Event bubbling means that when an event is fired
or triggered on some DOM element, for example
by clicking on our button here on the right side,
then the exact same event is also triggered
on all of the parent elements.
Again, the event is first fired on the button,
but then it will also be fired on all the parent elements
one at a time, so it will also fire on the paragraph
to the section the main element and actually all the way up
in a DOM tree until the HTML element which is the root.
So we say that the event bubbles up inside the DOM tree,
and that's why it's called bubbling.
Now the element on which the event was actually first fired,
so the element that caused the event to happen,
is called the target element.
In our example here it's, of course, the button
that was clicked.
The important part is that this target element is stored
as a property in the event object, and we already talked
about that one, right?
This means that all the parent elements
on which the event will also fire
will know the target element of the event,
so where the event was first fired.
That brings us to event delegation
because if the event bubbles up in the DOM tree,
and if we know where the event was fired
then we can simply attach an event handler
to a parent element and wait for the event to bubble up,
and we can then do whatever we intended to do
with our target element.
This technique is called event delegation.
In this example here, we could simply add the event handler
to the main element.
All right, so again, event delegation is
to not set up the event handler
on the original element that we're interested in,
but to attach it to a parent element and, basically,
catch the event there because it bubbles up.
We can then act on the element that we're interested in
using the target element property.
Why would we actually want to do this?
Let's see, there are basically two big use cases
for event delegation.
The first case is when we have an element
with lots of child elements that we are interested in.
In this case, instead of adding an event handler
to all of these child elements, we simply add it
to the parent element, and then determine
on which child element the event was fired.
The second use case for event delegation is
when we want an event handler attached to an element
that is not yet in the DOM when our page is loaded.
That's, of course, because we cannot add an event handler
to something that's not on our page, so in a case
of deprecation that we're coding,
it's actually both cases, right?
So we have a lot of expense or income items that are not
in the DOM when we load our page, so there is no way
to attach an event handler to them, and also
there may be a lot of items, so it wouldn't be useful
to have one event handler attached to each of them.
That's why we're gonna use event delegation.
Let's see it in practice in the next lecture.